README.md, before:

# Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent

[![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/docker-%230db7ed.svg?style=for-the-b### Method 3: Using Docker Image

```bash
# Pull and run the pre-built image
docker run -p 3000:3000 \
  -e OPENAI_API_KEY=your_api_key_here \
  -e ADMIN_USERNAME=admin \
  -e ADMIN_PASSWORD=admin123 \
  vilaswasnik/ansible-ai-devops-agent:latest
```

## 📖 Usage

Once the application is running, access the web interface at **http://localhost:3000**

### 🔐 Authentication


The application requires user authentication. Credentials must be set securely using environment variables:

```bash
export ADMIN_USERNAME=your_admin_username
export ADMIN_PASSWORD=your_secure_password
```

Or create a `.env` file:

```env
ADMIN_USERNAME=your_admin_username
ADMIN_PASSWORD=your_secure_password
```

> **⚠️ Security Note:** Never use default or hardcoded credentials in production. Always set strong, unique usernames and passwords via environment variables. Do not publish sensitive credentials in public documentation or repositories.

After successful login, you'll be redirected to the main Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent interface.
[![NodeJS](https://img.shields.io/badge/node.js-6DA55F?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white)](https://nodejs.org)
[![Ansible](https://img.shields.io/badge/ansible-%231A1918.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=ansible&logoColor=white)](https://ansible.com)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

> An intelligent DevOps automation agent that combines the power of Ansible with AI-driven capabilities for streamlined infrastructure management and deployment automation.

## 📋 Table of Contents

- [🚀 Overview](#-overview)
- [✨ Features](#-features)
- [🛠️ Tech Stack](#️-tech-stack)
- [📋 Prerequisites](#-prerequisites)
- [🚀 Installation](#-installation)
- [📖 Usage](#-usage)
- [🔧 Configuration](#-configuration)
- [📁 Project Structure](#-project-structure)
- [🤝 Contributing](#-contributing)
- [📝 License](#-license)
- [🙋 Support](#-support)
- [🔮 Roadmap](#-roadmap)

## 🚀 Overview

The Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent is a comprehensive automation platform that bridges the gap between AI-powered DevOps assistance and infrastructure automation. It provides a user-friendly web interface for executing shell scripts, Ansible playbooks, and AI-driven DevOps operations, making complex infrastructure tasks accessible and efficient.

## 📊 Detailed Project Flow Diagram

```
   +-------------------------------------------------------------+
   |                      Web Browser UI                         |
   |  (Login, Chat, Command Input, Results/Logs Display)         |
   +--------------------------+----------------------------------+
                              |
                              v
   +--------------------------+----------------------------------+
   |                 Express.js Backend (Node.js)                |
   |  - Auth Middleware (JWT)                                    |
   |  - API Endpoints:                                           |
   |      /api/chat (AI Chat)                                    |
   |      /api/execute (Script/Playbook Execution)               |
   |      /api/playbooks (List Playbooks)                        |
   |      /api/health (Health Check)                             |
   +--------------------------+----------------------------------+
                              |
                              v
   +--------------------------+----------------------------------+
   |                  Decision Logic Router                      |
   |  - If /api/chat:                                            |
   |      |---> OpenAI API (LLM)                                 |
   |      |       |                                              |
   |      |       v                                              |
   |      |   AI Response Generation                             |
   |      |       |                                              |
   |      |       v                                              |
   |      |   Return AI Response to UI                           |
   |      |                                                      |
   |  - If /api/execute:                                         |
   |      |---> Type: ansible                                    |
   |      |       |                                              |
   |      |       v                                              |
   |      |   Run Ansible Playbook (via CLI)                     |
   |      |       |                                              |
   |      |       v                                              |
   |      |   Collect Output/Logs                                |
   |      |       |                                              |
   |      |       v                                              |
   |      |   Return Results to UI                               |
   |      |                                                      |
   |      |---> Type: shell                                      |
   |              |                                              |
   |              v                                              |
   |          Run Shell Script (via Bash)                        |
   |              |                                              |
   |              v                                              |
   |          Collect Output/Logs                                |
   |              |                                              |
   |              v                                              |
   |          Return Results to UI                               |
   +--------------------------+----------------------------------+
                              |
                              v
   +--------------------------+----------------------------------+
   |                  Results/Logs Feedback                      |
   |  - Displayed in Web UI                                      |
   |  - Includes AI responses, script/playbook output, errors     |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------+
```

**Flow Description:**
- User logs in and interacts via chat/commands in the web UI
- Requests are authenticated and routed by Express.js backend
- Decision logic sends requests to OpenAI API (for chat) or executes scripts/playbooks
- Results and logs are returned to the UI for user feedback

## ✨ Features

### ✅ Completed Features
- **OpenAI API Integration** - AI-powered DevOps assistance
- **Web Chat Interface** - User-friendly web interface for interactions
- **Docker Containerization** - Ready-to-deploy containerized solution
- **Shell Script Execution** - Execute custom shell scripts securely
- **Ansible Playbook Integration** - Run Ansible automation playbooks
- **Environment Management** - Secure environment variable handling

### 🔄 In Development
- Kubernetes cluster deployment and hosting
- Code optimization and automation enhancements
- Ansible API integration with AWX environment
- Custom LLM model integration
- Website data retrieval capabilities
- Enhanced login/logout functionality

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Backend**: Node.js, Express.js
- **AI**: OpenAI API integration
- **Automation**: Ansible
- **Containerization**: Docker & Docker Compose
- **Frontend**: HTML, CSS, JavaScript
- **Version Control**: Git

## 📋 Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:

- **Docker & Docker Compose** (recommended)
- **Node.js 20+** (for local development)
- **Ansible** (for local playbook execution)
- **OpenAI API Key** (for AI features)

## 🚀 Installation

### Method 1: Docker (Recommended)

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/vilaswasnik/Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent.git
cd Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent

# Build and run with Docker Compose
docker-compose up --build
```

### Method 2: Local Development

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/vilaswasnik/Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent.git
cd Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent

# Install Node.js dependencies
npm install

# Install Ansible (Ubuntu/Debian)
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install ansible

# Set up environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env file with your OpenAI API key

# Start the development server
npm start
# or for development with auto-reload
npm run dev
```

### Method 3: Using Docker Image

```bash
# Pull and run the pre-built image
docker run -p 3000:3000 \
  -e OPENAI_API_KEY=your_api_key_here \
  vilaswasnik/ansible-ai-devops-agent:latest
```

## 📖 Usage

Once the application is running, Access the web interface at: http://localhost:3000

### Default Login Credentials

**Username:** `admin`  
**Password:** `admin123`

> **⚠️ Security Note:** These are default credentials for testing. In production, always change the default password and use environment variables for better security.

### Custom Login Credentials

You can set custom admin credentials using environment variables:

```bash
export ADMIN_USERNAME=your_admin_username
export ADMIN_PASSWORD=your_secure_password
```

Or create a `.env` file:

```env
ADMIN_USERNAME=your_admin_username
ADMIN_PASSWORD=your_secure_password
```

### Web Interface Features

1. **AI Chat Interface**
   - Interact with the AI agent for DevOps assistance
   - Get recommendations for infrastructure automation
   - Execute natural language commands

2. **Script Execution**
   - Run shell scripts securely through the web interface
   - Execute Ansible playbooks with real-time output
   - Monitor execution logs and results

3. **Ansible Integration**
   - Browse and execute pre-configured playbooks
   - Create custom automation workflows
   - Manage inventory and variables

### API Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| `GET` | `/` | Main web interface |
| `POST` | `/api/chat` | AI chat endpoint |
| `POST` | `/api/execute` | Execute scripts/playbooks |
| `GET` | `/api/playbooks` | List available playbooks |
| `GET` | `/api/health` | Health check endpoint |

### Example Usage

```bash
# Execute a playbook via API
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/execute \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"type": "ansible", "playbook": "ansiblehelloworld.yml"}'
```

### Ansible Integration

The project includes several pre-configured Ansible playbooks:
- `ansible/ansiblehelloworld.yml` - Basic hello world playbook
- `ansible/getosdetails.yml` - System information gathering
- `ansible/ansibletest.yml` - Test automation scenarios

## � Development Guide

This section provides guidance on extending the Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent with custom automation scripts.

### Creating Ansible Playbooks

Ansible playbooks are stored in the `ansible/` directory. To create a new playbook:

1. **Create a new YAML file** in the `ansible/` folder:
   ```bash
   touch ansible/your-playbook-name.yml
   ```

2. **Follow Ansible best practices** for playbook structure:
   ```yaml
   ---
   - name: Your Playbook Description
     hosts: all
     become: yes  # Use sudo if needed
     vars:
       your_variable: "value"
     
     tasks:
       - name: Task description
         ansible.builtin.command: echo "Hello World"
         register: command_output
         
       - name: Display output
         ansible.builtin.debug:
           msg: "{{ command_output.stdout }}"
   ```

3. **Test your playbook** before deployment:
   ```bash
   ansible-playbook ansible/your-playbook-name.yml -i ansible/inventory
   ```

4. **Update the web interface** by adding your playbook to the execution options in `public/aiagent.html` if needed.

### Shell Script Storage and Creation

Shell scripts are stored in the `public/scripts/shell_scripts/` directory. To add a new shell script:

1. **Create your script** in the appropriate location:
   ```bash
   touch public/scripts/shell_scripts/your-script.sh
   ```

2. **Make it executable**:
   ```bash
   chmod +x public/scripts/shell_scripts/your-script.sh
   ```

3. **Follow shell script best practices**:
   ```bash
   #!/bin/bash
   
   # Script header with description
   # Description: Brief description of what this script does
   # Usage: ./your-script.sh [parameters]
   
   set -e  # Exit on any error
   
   # Your script logic here
   echo "Starting script execution..."
   
   # Example task
   mkdir -p /tmp/example
   echo "Directory created successfully"
   ```

4. **Test your script** thoroughly before deploying:
   ```bash
   ./public/scripts/shell_scripts/your-script.sh
   ```

5. **Update the web interface** by adding your script to the execution options in `public/aiagent.html` if needed.

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables

## �🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables
Create a `.env` file with the following variables:

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here # Set this locally, do not commit your real API key
NODE_ENV=production
PORT=3000
ADMIN_USERNAME=admin
ADMIN_PASSWORD=admin123
```

### Docker Configuration
The project includes optimized Docker configuration:
- Multi-stage builds for smaller images
 
# Install required authentication and session modules
npm install bcrypt jsonwebtoken express-session cookie-parser
- Ansible pre-installed in containers
- Volume mounting for development
- Environment variable support for secure credential management

## 📁 Project Structure

```
Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent/
├── .github/               # GitHub configuration
│   ├── ISSUE_TEMPLATE/    # Issue templates
│   ├── workflows/         # CI/CD workflows
│   ├── FUNDING.yml        # Sponsorship information
│   └── PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md
├── public/                # Web interface files
│   ├── scripts/          # Client-side JavaScript
│   ├── styles/           # CSS stylesheets
│   └── *.html            # HTML templates
├── ansible/              # Ansible playbooks and inventory
├── scripts/              # Utility scripts
├── .env.example          # Environment variables template
├── .gitignore           # Git ignore rules
├── CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md   # Community guidelines
├── CONTRIBUTING.md      # Contribution guidelines
├── Dockerfile           # Docker configuration
├── docker-compose.yml   # Docker Compose setup
├── LICENSE              # MIT License
├── README.md            # This file
├── SECURITY.md          # Security policy
├── server.js            # Main application server
└── package.json         # Node.js dependencies and scripts
```

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions from the community! Here's how you can help:

### Ways to Contribute

- 🐛 **Report Bugs**: Use [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/vilaswasnik/Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent/issues) to report bugs
- 💡 **Suggest Features**: Share your ideas for new features
- 📝 **Improve Documentation**: Help make our docs better
- 🧪 **Write Tests**: Add test cases to improve reliability
- 🔧 **Code Contributions**: Submit pull requests with fixes or enhancements

### Development Process

1. **Fork** the repository
2. **Clone** your fork: `git clone https://github.com/your-username/Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent.git`
3. **Create** a feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`
4. **Make** your changes and **test** thoroughly
5. **Commit** your changes: `git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`
6. **Push** to your branch: `git push origin feature/amazing-feature`
7. **Open** a Pull Request

### Guidelines

- Follow the existing code style and conventions
- Write clear, concise commit messages
- Add tests for new features
- Update documentation as needed
- Ensure all tests pass before submitting
- Be respectful and inclusive in all interactions

### Development Setup

```bash
# Install development dependencies
npm install

# Run tests
npm test

# Run linting
npm run lint

# Start development server with hot reload
npm run dev
```

## � Security

We take security seriously. If you discover a security vulnerability, please:

- **DO NOT** create a public GitHub issue
- **DO** email us directly at: security@example.com
- Include detailed information about the vulnerability
- Allow reasonable time for us to respond and fix the issue

See our [Security Policy](SECURITY.md) for more details.

## 🔐 Security Best Practices

### ⚠️ Important Security Notes

1. **Change Default Credentials**: The default login credentials (`admin`/`admin123`) are for testing only. **Always change them before production deployment.**

2. **Environment Variables**: Use environment variables instead of hardcoding credentials:
   ```bash
   export ADMIN_USERNAME=your_secure_username
   export ADMIN_PASSWORD=your_strong_password
   ```

3. **HTTPS in Production**: Enable HTTPS and set `secure: true` for cookies in production.

4. **Strong Passwords**: Use complex passwords with a mix of uppercase, lowercase, numbers, and special characters.

5. **Regular Updates**: Keep dependencies updated and monitor for security vulnerabilities.

### Production Deployment Checklist
- [ ] Change default admin credentials
- [ ] Enable HTTPS/SSL
- [ ] Set secure cookie options
- [ ] Configure firewall rules
- [ ] Set up monitoring and logging
- [ ] Regular security audits

## 🚀 CI/CD

This project uses GitHub Actions for continuous integration and deployment:

- **Automated Testing**: Runs on every push and pull request
- **Security Scanning**: Uses Trivy to scan for vulnerabilities
- **Code Quality**: Ensures code standards are maintained
- **Docker Builds**: Validates container builds

See [.github/workflows/ci.yml](.github/workflows/ci.yml) for the complete CI/CD pipeline.

## �📊 GitHub Stats

![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/vilaswasnik/Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent?style=social)
![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/vilaswasnik/Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent?style=social)
![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/vilaswasnik/Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent)
![GitHub PRs](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/vilaswasnik/Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent)

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **OpenAI** for providing the AI capabilities
- **Ansible Community** for the automation framework
- **Docker** for containerization technology
- **Node.js Community** for the runtime environment
- All our [contributors](https://github.com/vilaswasnik/Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent/graphs/contributors) who help make this project better

---

<div align="center">

**Made with ❤️ by [Vilas Wasnik](https://github.com/vilaswasnik)**

⭐ **Star this repository if you find it useful!**

[📧 Contact](mailto:contact@example.com) • [🐛 Issues](https://github.com/vilaswasnik/Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent/issues) • [📖 Wiki](https://github.com/vilaswasnik/Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent/wiki)

</div>

Commit message:

docs: add post-clone OpenAI API key setup instructions

README.md, after:

# Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent

[![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/docker-%230db7ed.svg?style=for-the-b### Method 3: Using Docker Image

```bash
# Pull and run the pre-built image
docker run -p 3000:3000 \
  -e OPENAI_API_KEY=your_api_key_here \
  -e ADMIN_USERNAME=admin \
  -e ADMIN_PASSWORD=admin123 \
  vilaswasnik/ansible-ai-devops-agent:latest
```

## 📖 Usage

Once the application is running, access the web interface at **http://localhost:3000**

### 🔐 Authentication


The application requires user authentication. Credentials must be set securely using environment variables:

```bash
export ADMIN_USERNAME=your_admin_username
export ADMIN_PASSWORD=your_secure_password
```

Or create a `.env` file:

```env
ADMIN_USERNAME=your_admin_username
ADMIN_PASSWORD=your_secure_password
```

> **⚠️ Security Note:** Never use default or hardcoded credentials in production. Always set strong, unique usernames and passwords via environment variables. Do not publish sensitive credentials in public documentation or repositories.

After successful login, you'll be redirected to the main Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent interface.
[![NodeJS](https://img.shields.io/badge/node.js-6DA55F?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white)](https://nodejs.org)
[![Ansible](https://img.shields.io/badge/ansible-%231A1918.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=ansible&logoColor=white)](https://ansible.com)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

> An intelligent DevOps automation agent that combines the power of Ansible with AI-driven capabilities for streamlined infrastructure management and deployment automation.

## 📋 Table of Contents

- [🚀 Overview](#-overview)
- [✨ Features](#-features)
- [🛠️ Tech Stack](#️-tech-stack)
- [📋 Prerequisites](#-prerequisites)
- [🚀 Installation](#-installation)
- [📖 Usage](#-usage)
- [🔧 Configuration](#-configuration)
- [📁 Project Structure](#-project-structure)
- [🤝 Contributing](#-contributing)
- [📝 License](#-license)
- [🙋 Support](#-support)
- [🔮 Roadmap](#-roadmap)

## 🚀 Overview

The Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent is a comprehensive automation platform that bridges the gap between AI-powered DevOps assistance and infrastructure automation. It provides a user-friendly web interface for executing shell scripts, Ansible playbooks, and AI-driven DevOps operations, making complex infrastructure tasks accessible and efficient.

## 📊 Detailed Project Flow Diagram

```
   +-------------------------------------------------------------+
   |                      Web Browser UI                         |
   |  (Login, Chat, Command Input, Results/Logs Display)         |
   +--------------------------+----------------------------------+
                              |
                              v
   +--------------------------+----------------------------------+
   |                 Express.js Backend (Node.js)                |
   |  - Auth Middleware (JWT)                                    |
   |  - API Endpoints:                                           |
   |      /api/chat (AI Chat)                                    |
   |      /api/execute (Script/Playbook Execution)               |
   |      /api/playbooks (List Playbooks)                        |
   |      /api/health (Health Check)                             |
   +--------------------------+----------------------------------+
                              |
                              v
   +--------------------------+----------------------------------+
   |                  Decision Logic Router                      |
   |  - If /api/chat:                                            |
   |      |---> OpenAI API (LLM)                                 |
   |      |       |                                              |
   |      |       v                                              |
   |      |   AI Response Generation                             |
   |      |       |                                              |
   |      |       v                                              |
   |      |   Return AI Response to UI                           |
   |      |                                                      |
   |  - If /api/execute:                                         |
   |      |---> Type: ansible                                    |
   |      |       |                                              |
   |      |       v                                              |
   |      |   Run Ansible Playbook (via CLI)                     |
   |      |       |                                              |
   |      |       v                                              |
   |      |   Collect Output/Logs                                |
   |      |       |                                              |
   |      |       v                                              |
   |      |   Return Results to UI                               |
   |      |                                                      |
   |      |---> Type: shell                                      |
   |              |                                              |
   |              v                                              |
   |          Run Shell Script (via Bash)                        |
   |              |                                              |
   |              v                                              |
   |          Collect Output/Logs                                |
   |              |                                              |
   |              v                                              |
   |          Return Results to UI                               |
   +--------------------------+----------------------------------+
                              |
                              v
   +--------------------------+----------------------------------+
   |                  Results/Logs Feedback                      |
   |  - Displayed in Web UI                                      |
   |  - Includes AI responses, script/playbook output, errors     |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------+
```

**Flow Description:**
- User logs in and interacts via chat/commands in the web UI
- Requests are authenticated and routed by Express.js backend
- Decision logic sends requests to OpenAI API (for chat) or executes scripts/playbooks
- Results and logs are returned to the UI for user feedback

## ✨ Features

### ✅ Completed Features
- **OpenAI API Integration** - AI-powered DevOps assistance
- **Web Chat Interface** - User-friendly web interface for interactions
- **Docker Containerization** - Ready-to-deploy containerized solution
- **Shell Script Execution** - Execute custom shell scripts securely
- **Ansible Playbook Integration** - Run Ansible automation playbooks
- **Environment Management** - Secure environment variable handling

### 🔄 In Development
- Kubernetes cluster deployment and hosting
- Code optimization and automation enhancements
- Ansible API integration with AWX environment
- Custom LLM model integration
- Website data retrieval capabilities
- Enhanced login/logout functionality

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Backend**: Node.js, Express.js
- **AI**: OpenAI API integration
- **Automation**: Ansible
- **Containerization**: Docker & Docker Compose
- **Frontend**: HTML, CSS, JavaScript
- **Version Control**: Git

## 📋 Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:

- **Docker & Docker Compose** (recommended)
- **Node.js 20+** (for local development)
- **Ansible** (for local playbook execution)
- **OpenAI API Key** (for AI features)

## 🚀 Installation

### Method 1: Docker (Recommended)

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/vilaswasnik/Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent.git
cd Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent

# Build and run with Docker Compose
docker-compose up --build
```

### Method 2: Local Development

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/vilaswasnik/Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent.git
cd Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent

# Install Node.js dependencies
npm install

# Install Ansible (Ubuntu/Debian)
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install ansible

# Set up environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env file with your OpenAI API key

# Start the development server
npm start
# or for development with auto-reload
npm run dev
```

### Method 3: Using Docker Image

```bash
# Pull and run the pre-built image
docker run -p 3000:3000 \
  -e OPENAI_API_KEY=your_api_key_here \
  vilaswasnik/ansible-ai-devops-agent:latest
```

## 📖 Usage

Once the application is running, Access the web interface at: http://localhost:3000

### Default Login Credentials

**Username:** `admin`  
**Password:** `admin123`

> **⚠️ Security Note:** These are default credentials for testing. In production, always change the default password and use environment variables for better security.

### Custom Login Credentials

You can set custom admin credentials using environment variables:

```bash
export ADMIN_USERNAME=your_admin_username
export ADMIN_PASSWORD=your_secure_password
```

Or create a `.env` file:

```env
ADMIN_USERNAME=your_admin_username
ADMIN_PASSWORD=your_secure_password
```

### Web Interface Features

1. **AI Chat Interface**
   - Interact with the AI agent for DevOps assistance
   - Get recommendations for infrastructure automation
   - Execute natural language commands

2. **Script Execution**
   - Run shell scripts securely through the web interface
   - Execute Ansible playbooks with real-time output
   - Monitor execution logs and results

3. **Ansible Integration**
   - Browse and execute pre-configured playbooks
   - Create custom automation workflows
   - Manage inventory and variables

### API Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| `GET` | `/` | Main web interface |
| `POST` | `/api/chat` | AI chat endpoint |
| `POST` | `/api/execute` | Execute scripts/playbooks |
| `GET` | `/api/playbooks` | List available playbooks |
| `GET` | `/api/health` | Health check endpoint |

### Example Usage

```bash
# Execute a playbook via API
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/execute \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"type": "ansible", "playbook": "ansiblehelloworld.yml"}'
```

### Ansible Integration

The project includes several pre-configured Ansible playbooks:
- `ansible/ansiblehelloworld.yml` - Basic hello world playbook
- `ansible/getosdetails.yml` - System information gathering
- `ansible/ansibletest.yml` - Test automation scenarios

## � Development Guide

This section provides guidance on extending the Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent with custom automation scripts.

### Creating Ansible Playbooks

Ansible playbooks are stored in the `ansible/` directory. To create a new playbook:

1. **Create a new YAML file** in the `ansible/` folder:
   ```bash
   touch ansible/your-playbook-name.yml
   ```

2. **Follow Ansible best practices** for playbook structure:
   ```yaml
   ---
   - name: Your Playbook Description
     hosts: all
     become: yes  # Use sudo if needed
     vars:
       your_variable: "value"
     
     tasks:
       - name: Task description
         ansible.builtin.command: echo "Hello World"
         register: command_output
         
       - name: Display output
         ansible.builtin.debug:
           msg: "{{ command_output.stdout }}"
   ```

3. **Test your playbook** before deployment:
   ```bash
   ansible-playbook ansible/your-playbook-name.yml -i ansible/inventory
   ```

4. **Update the web interface** by adding your playbook to the execution options in `public/aiagent.html` if needed.

### Shell Script Storage and Creation

Shell scripts are stored in the `public/scripts/shell_scripts/` directory. To add a new shell script:

1. **Create your script** in the appropriate location:
   ```bash
   touch public/scripts/shell_scripts/your-script.sh
   ```

2. **Make it executable**:
   ```bash
   chmod +x public/scripts/shell_scripts/your-script.sh
   ```

3. **Follow shell script best practices**:
   ```bash
   #!/bin/bash
   
   # Script header with description
   # Description: Brief description of what this script does
   # Usage: ./your-script.sh [parameters]
   
   set -e  # Exit on any error
   
   # Your script logic here
   echo "Starting script execution..."
   
   # Example task
   mkdir -p /tmp/example
   echo "Directory created successfully"
   ```

4. **Test your script** thoroughly before deploying:
   ```bash
   ./public/scripts/shell_scripts/your-script.sh
   ```

5. **Update the web interface** by adding your script to the execution options in `public/aiagent.html` if needed.

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables

## �🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables
Create a `.env` file with the following variables:

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here # Set this locally, do not commit your real API key
NODE_ENV=production
PORT=3000
## 🛠️ Post-Clone Setup

After cloning the repository, you must set your own OpenAI API key for the application to work:

1. **Generate an OpenAI API key** from your OpenAI account dashboard.
2. **Create a `.env` file** in the project root (if it does not exist).
3. **Add your API key to `.env`**:
   ```env
   OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here
   ```
4. **Never commit your real API key to the repository.** The `.env` file is ignored by git for security.

If you previously exposed your API key, revoke it and generate a new one.
ADMIN_USERNAME=admin
ADMIN_PASSWORD=admin123
```

### Docker Configuration
The project includes optimized Docker configuration:
- Multi-stage builds for smaller images
 
# Install required authentication and session modules
npm install bcrypt jsonwebtoken express-session cookie-parser
- Ansible pre-installed in containers
- Volume mounting for development
- Environment variable support for secure credential management

## 📁 Project Structure

```
Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent/
├── .github/               # GitHub configuration
│   ├── ISSUE_TEMPLATE/    # Issue templates
│   ├── workflows/         # CI/CD workflows
│   ├── FUNDING.yml        # Sponsorship information
│   └── PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md
├── public/                # Web interface files
│   ├── scripts/          # Client-side JavaScript
│   ├── styles/           # CSS stylesheets
│   └── *.html            # HTML templates
├── ansible/              # Ansible playbooks and inventory
├── scripts/              # Utility scripts
├── .env.example          # Environment variables template
├── .gitignore           # Git ignore rules
├── CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md   # Community guidelines
├── CONTRIBUTING.md      # Contribution guidelines
├── Dockerfile           # Docker configuration
├── docker-compose.yml   # Docker Compose setup
├── LICENSE              # MIT License
├── README.md            # This file
├── SECURITY.md          # Security policy
├── server.js            # Main application server
└── package.json         # Node.js dependencies and scripts
```

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions from the community! Here's how you can help:

### Ways to Contribute

- 🐛 **Report Bugs**: Use [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/vilaswasnik/Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent/issues) to report bugs
- 💡 **Suggest Features**: Share your ideas for new features
- 📝 **Improve Documentation**: Help make our docs better
- 🧪 **Write Tests**: Add test cases to improve reliability
- 🔧 **Code Contributions**: Submit pull requests with fixes or enhancements

### Development Process

1. **Fork** the repository
2. **Clone** your fork: `git clone https://github.com/your-username/Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent.git`
3. **Create** a feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`
4. **Make** your changes and **test** thoroughly
5. **Commit** your changes: `git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`
6. **Push** to your branch: `git push origin feature/amazing-feature`
7. **Open** a Pull Request

### Guidelines

- Follow the existing code style and conventions
- Write clear, concise commit messages
- Add tests for new features
- Update documentation as needed
- Ensure all tests pass before submitting
- Be respectful and inclusive in all interactions

### Development Setup

```bash
# Install development dependencies
npm install

# Run tests
npm test

# Run linting
npm run lint

# Start development server with hot reload
npm run dev
```

## � Security

We take security seriously. If you discover a security vulnerability, please:

- **DO NOT** create a public GitHub issue
- **DO** email us directly at: security@example.com
- Include detailed information about the vulnerability
- Allow reasonable time for us to respond and fix the issue

See our [Security Policy](SECURITY.md) for more details.

## 🔐 Security Best Practices

### ⚠️ Important Security Notes

1. **Change Default Credentials**: The default login credentials (`admin`/`admin123`) are for testing only. **Always change them before production deployment.**

2. **Environment Variables**: Use environment variables instead of hardcoding credentials:
   ```bash
   export ADMIN_USERNAME=your_secure_username
   export ADMIN_PASSWORD=your_strong_password
   ```

3. **HTTPS in Production**: Enable HTTPS and set `secure: true` for cookies in production.

4. **Strong Passwords**: Use complex passwords with a mix of uppercase, lowercase, numbers, and special characters.

5. **Regular Updates**: Keep dependencies updated and monitor for security vulnerabilities.

### Production Deployment Checklist
- [ ] Change default admin credentials
- [ ] Enable HTTPS/SSL
- [ ] Set secure cookie options
- [ ] Configure firewall rules
- [ ] Set up monitoring and logging
- [ ] Regular security audits

## 🚀 CI/CD

This project uses GitHub Actions for continuous integration and deployment:

- **Automated Testing**: Runs on every push and pull request
- **Security Scanning**: Uses Trivy to scan for vulnerabilities
- **Code Quality**: Ensures code standards are maintained
- **Docker Builds**: Validates container builds

See [.github/workflows/ci.yml](.github/workflows/ci.yml) for the complete CI/CD pipeline.

## �📊 GitHub Stats

![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/vilaswasnik/Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent?style=social)
![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/vilaswasnik/Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent?style=social)
![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/vilaswasnik/Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent)
![GitHub PRs](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/vilaswasnik/Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent)

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **OpenAI** for providing the AI capabilities
- **Ansible Community** for the automation framework
- **Docker** for containerization technology
- **Node.js Community** for the runtime environment
- All our [contributors](https://github.com/vilaswasnik/Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent/graphs/contributors) who help make this project better

---

<div align="center">

**Made with ❤️ by [Vilas Wasnik](https://github.com/vilaswasnik)**

⭐ **Star this repository if you find it useful!**

[📧 Contact](mailto:contact@example.com) • [🐛 Issues](https://github.com/vilaswasnik/Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent/issues) • [📖 Wiki](https://github.com/vilaswasnik/Ansible-AI-DevOps-Agent/wiki)

</div>
